This is a simple shell script I wrote to do ZFS filesystem replication
over SSH in "pull" style.

Motivation:

Normally, when we replicate ZFS datasets from one machine to another,
we do it "push" style, with the source machine taking regular
snapshots and running a script that runs a zfs send | zfs receive
pipeline where the receive side is run over ssh to a remote machine.
However, this assumes a great deal of trust: in order for this to
work, the source machine must have root access to the receiver.
(Standard ZFS delegated administration doesn't work because the source
can change properties that would require mounts or exports to change
on the recipient system.)  Additionally, the people who operate the
remote server wanted a different snapshot schedule from what we
normally use.  We didn't want to give them root on our file servers,
but we have root on their machine, so I created this script that runs
on our server to pull the snapshots over from the source system.
Doing it this way is *not* ironclad secure: there are things they
could do on the remote server which would give them effective root
access to our server, but it's better than the alternative.

Principle of operation:

This script assumes that it can ssh as root to the source server
(using public-key authentication, presumably, although GSSAPI should
also work -- public-key was simplest to get going), but it doesn't
need to run directly as root on the target; it uses sudo to run the
zfs receive command.  It runs two commands on the source system for
each dataset to be synchronized: first, it does a "zfs list" to get a
list of snapshots on the source, which is used to determine both the
absolute most recent source snapshot and the most recent snapshot in
common between the source and recipient systems; then it does a "zfs
send" on the source to generate a replication stream with the
differences between the two snapshots.

Caveats:

Obviously, any automatic snapshot creation procedure on the recipient
system must be disabled, so that the only snapshots to exist are the
ones that were created on the source.  (This is inherent in the
concept of "replication", but it's also a formal requirement of the
way we compute which snapshots the two systems have in common.)

